-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

The 18th European Conference on Modelling Foundations and Applications 
(ECMFA 2022)

June 2022 – Nantes, France (co-located with STAF 2022)

https://davidediruscio.github.io/ECMFA2022/ 

-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
 

=========== 
About ECMFA
===========

Model-Based Engineering (MBE) is an approach to the design, analysis, and
development of software and systems that relies on exploiting high-level models
and computer-based automation to achieve significant boosts in both productivity
and quality. 

The European Conference on Modelling Foundations and Applications (ECMFA) is the
premier European forum dedicated to advancing the state of knowledge and
fostering the application of all aspects of MBE and related approaches. 

In its 16th edition, ECMFA introduced two major successful innovations that will
be maintained in the current 18th ECMFA edition to strengthen the scope of the
community and to foster the quality of its contributions. 

First, the International Conference on Model Transformations (ICMT) joined
forces with ECMFA, merging both into one single event that unites all aspects
related to Model-Based Engineering (MBE). 

Second, a two-phase submission and review process was introduced, with two
possible submission periods (October and February). Papers accepted in the first
round are published as soon as they are ready, and presented at the conference.
Authors of papers not accepted in the first phase are invited to re-submit
improved versions of their work in the second submission phase that also
welcomes fresh submissions.

Furthermore, since the 15th edition of ECMFA, all accepted papers will be
published in the JOT journal, which is platinum open-access and indexed by
Scopus, DBLP, and Scientific Commons, among others. 


===========
Submissions 
===========

We are soliciting papers presenting original research on all aspects of
model-based engineering. Two types of submissions are possible: 

- Foundation Papers, dealing with modeling foundations, such as metamodeling,
model transformations, model validation, verification and testing, model
engineering methods and tools, and related aspects. 

- Application Papers, dealing with the application of modeling techniques,
including experience reports on the use of MBE methods and tools, industrial
case studies, or successful applications of MBE practices in industry or in
public administration, with significant modeling lessons learned. All
applications must have been done in real contexts and at least one of the
authors of the paper must be from the company or administration where the
application took place. 

Submissions must conform to the JOT LaTeX template and must not exceed 14 pages
(including figures, references, and appendices). Failure to conform to these
guidelines may result in disqualification of the paper. No simultaneous
submission to other publication outlets (either a conference or a journal) is
allowed; any concurrent submission will be deemed as a serious breach of
scientific ethics, resulting in the immediate rejection of the paper and
appropriate action will be taken. 

All submissions will be peer-reviewed by at least three members of the Program
Committee. 

All papers have to be submitted electronically in PDF format through Easychair 
(https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ecmfa2022). 

Topics of interest Topics of interest include, but are not limited to: 

- Foundations of MBE.
- Application of MBE methods, tools, and techniques to specific domains, e.g.,
automotive, aerospace, cyber-physical systems, robotics, Artificial Intelligence
or IoT. 
- Successful use of MBE in connection with other disciplines and approaches,
such as Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, DevOps, or Open Source, Safety
Assurance. 
- Educational aspects of MBE. 
- Tools and initiatives for the successful adoption of MBE in industry. 


===========================
Review criteria and process
=========================== 

All papers will be assessed by the program committee in terms of their novelty,
significance, technical quality, rigor, and suitability for the conference.

Contributions can be submitted to any of the two submission periods. Papers
submitted to the first round of review can be recommended by the Program
Committee to be accepted-as-is, accepted with minor revisions, undergo major
revisions (and resubmit in the second round) or rejected. Recommendations for
papers submitted in the second round are for accept, minor revisions, or reject.

Papers accepted at any of the two rounds with minor revisions will be given a
specified period of time to perform the revisions and re-submit. The same
reviewers will assess how well the revision requests have been addressed by the
authors, and whether the final paper maintains or improves the level of
contribution of the original submission. Revisions that significantly lessen the
contribution of the work or that fail to adequately address the reviewers'
original concerns will result in the paper's rejection. Papers not accepted in
the first round can be resubmitted to the second one, indicating how the authors
have improved the paper to address the reviewers' criticisms. Papers not
accepted in the second round but with a sufficient level of quality may be
encouraged to be re-submitted next year, or alternatively as regular JOT
articles, hence continuing their review process through the normal journal
channels. 

Papers will be published in the JOT journal as soon as they are accepted and one
of their authors registers at the conference. 


=========
Artifacts
=========

Artifacts are recommended, but not required, for the initial submission.
Depending on the papers, reviewers may take the existence of artifacts as a
positive signal about the work. Also depending on the papers, artifacts may be
required as a condition for publication. 


===========
Publication 
===========

All accepted papers will be published as platinum open-access journal
publication in JOT. At least one author for each accepted paper must register
before the early registration deadline and present the paper during the
conference. Failure to do so will result in the paper being withdrawn from the
proceedings. 


===============
Important Dates 
===============

* Round 1 
  - Submission: Oct 10, 2021 
  - Notification: Dec 10, 2021

* Round 2 
  - Submission: Feb 20, 2022 
  - Notification: Apr 22, 2022

* Conference:June, 2022


====================
ECMFA 2022 Co-Chairs
==================== 
Sahar Kokaly, General Motors/McMaster University (Canada)
Davide Di Ruscio, University of L’Aquila (Italy)
